OBSDOCS-1795: Improve the contents of 'Configuring alert routing for default platform alerts' (#91565)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-configuring-alert-routing-default-platform-alerts.adoc

[id="configuring-alert-routing-default-platform-alerts_{context}"]
= Configuring alert routing for default platform alerts

> You can configure Alertmanager to send notifications to receive important alerts coming from your cluster. Customize where and how Alertmanager sends notifications about default platform alerts by editing the default configuration in the `alertmanager-main` secret in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure Alertmanager to send notifications for important alerts coming from your cluster. Customize where and how Alertmanager sends notifications about default platform alerts by editing the default configuration in the `alertmanager-main` secret in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.
```

Author: I understand the comment here, the only reason I will keep the current version is because I want to mention the word "receive" to enhance searchability. It is an ongoing issue with this documentation that I am trying to solve by mentioning the same "buzzwords" :smile:

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` cluster role.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Extract the currently active Alertmanager configuration from the `alertmanager-main` secret and save it as a local `alertmanager.yaml` file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring get secret alertmanager-main --template='{{ index .data "alertmanager.yaml" }}' | base64 --decode > alertmanager.yaml
----

. Open the `alertmanager.yaml` file.

> . Edit the Alertmanager configuration by updating parameters in the YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the Alertmanager configuration.
```
"by updating parameters in the YAML." seems redundant as the user has already opened the file and updating the config means updating the parameters.

    - "alertname=Watchdog"
    repeat_interval: 2m
    receiver: watchdog
receivers:
- name: default
- name: watchdog
----

> <1> If you configured an HTTP cluster-wide proxy, set the `proxy_from_environment` parameter to `true` to enable proxying for all alert receivers.

Reviewer 2: note: `proxy_from_environment` is since 4.18, no such settings for 4.17 and previous versions

Author: Yes, I am expecting this and will get manual cherry-picks for this to not include `proxy_from_environment` in older versions. :+1:

<2> Specify how long Alertmanager waits while collecting initial alerts for a group of alerts before sending a notification.
<3> Specify how much time must elapse before Alertmanager sends a notification about new alerts added to a group of alerts for which an initial notification was already sent.
<4> Specify the minimum amount of time that must pass before an alert notification is repeated.
If you want a notification to repeat at each group interval, set the `repeat_interval` value to less than the `group_interval` value.
The repeated notification can still be delayed, for example, when certain Alertmanager pods are restarted or rescheduled.

.. Add your alert receiver configuration:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
receivers:
- name: default
- name: watchdog
- name: <receiver> # <1>
  <receiver_configuration> # <2>
# ...
----

> <1> The receiver name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<1> The receiver's name.
```

> <2> The receiver configuration. The supported receivers are PagerDuty, webhook, email, Slack, and Microsoft Teams.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<2> The receiver configuration. The supported receivers are PagerDuty, webhook, email, Slack, and Microsoft Teams and ect.
```
based on
```
$ oc explain alertmanagerconfig.spec.receivers | grep Configs
  discordConfigs	<[]Object>
  emailConfigs	<[]Object>
  msteamsConfigs	<[]Object>
  opsgenieConfigs	<[]Object>
  pagerdutyConfigs	<[]Object>
  pushoverConfigs	<[]Object>
  slackConfigs	<[]Object>
  snsConfigs	<[]Object>
  telegramConfigs	<[]Object>
  victoropsConfigs	<[]Object>
  webexConfigs	<[]Object>
  webhookConfigs	<[]Object>
  wechatConfigs	<[]Object>
```

Author: Thank you for letting me know about this. In more than one place we list receivers as such: PagerDuty, Webhook, Email, Slack, Microsoft Teams. I will ask developers why are we only including those as supported and will change the wording based on the answer :+1:

Author: I have asked the team about this one. So, we do not want to document the rest of the receivers due to support issues, we only want to include the ones already listed here (so yes, we do technically have all these other receivers, but we do not want to put them in the docs). So I will leave the callout as it is right now. Thank you!

+
.Example of configuring PagerDuty as an alert receiver
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
receivers:
- name: default
- name: watchdog
- name: team-frontend-page
  pagerduty_configs:
  - routing_key: ABCD01234EFGHIJ56789
    http_config: # <1> 

>       proxy_from_environment: true

Reviewer 2: same as https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/91565/files#r2063596008, `proxy_from_environment` is since 4.18

    receiver: watchdog
  - matchers: # <1>
    - "service=example-app"
    routes: # <2>
    - matchers:
      - "severity=critical"
      receiver: team-frontend-page
# ...
----
<1>  This example matches alerts from the `example-app` service.

> <2> You can create routes within other routes for more complex alert routing. This example routes alerts of `critical` severity that are fired by the `example-app` service to the `team-frontend-page` receiver. Typically, these types of alerts are paged to an individual or a critical response team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> You can create routes within other routes for more complex alert routing.
In this example, alerts of critical severity from the `example-app` service are routed to the `team-frontend-page` receiver. These alerts are typically paged to an individual or critical response team.
```

Author: Oh actually, I just realised, if i do this, it will not stay indented under the callout, and when I am talking about the exmaple here, I am talking specifically about the part of fields mentioned in callout 2. I will try to add plus sign and see if that would work, but I have never tried that with a callout, so I might have to keep it as it is

Author: Oh no, sorry my bad, one more correction, this would work outside of the calout as well :smile: :+1:

. Apply the new configuration in the file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring create secret generic alertmanager-main --from-file=alertmanager.yaml --dry-run=client -o=yaml |  oc -n openshift-monitoring replace secret --filename=-
----

> . Verify that your routing is configured correctly by visualizing the routing tree:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify your routing configuration by using the routing tree visualization. Visualize the routing tree by running the following command: 
```
